README.md, before:

# Hello hello, my name is [Hans](https://www.drublic.de/) 👋

I am an Engineering Manager, Software Architect and Certified Scrum Master working as Vice President Engineering for [Seven.One Entertainment Group](https://www.prosiebensat1.com/) located in Cologne, Germany.

Agile development and Scrum have influenced my work since 2012. I have more than ten years of experience in developing scalable web-applications using cutting edge technologies. I love creating solid systems in a high-performance environment. My passion is to build teams that strive for excellence. Enabling team members to accelerate is what drives my daily work.

## Get in Contact

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/website-%23.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Google%20Chrome&color=black&logoColor=white)](https://www.drublic.de/)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-%23.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&color=black&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/drublic)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-%23.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&color=black&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hreinl/)

Commit message:

Update text about me in readme

README.md, after:

# Hello hello, my name is [Hans](https://www.drublic.de/) 👋

As an experienced Engineering Leader and Software Architect, I currently serve as
the Vice President of Engineering for [Seven.One Entertainment Group (ProSiebenSat.1)](https://www.prosiebensat1.com/).

I have been utilizing Agile development and methodologies for over a decade and have 13 years of professional experience developing scalable web-applications using cutting-edge technologies. I am passionate about creating robust systems in high-performance environments and building teams that strive for excellence. My primary focus is on empowering and accelerating the growth of my team members.

## Get in Contact

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/website-%23.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Google%20Chrome&color=black&logoColor=white)](https://www.drublic.de/)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-%23.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&color=black&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/drublic)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-%23.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&color=black&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hreinl/)
